Creatine and caffeine,
two things that have benefits for your
physical performance, but not if you
take them at the same time because they
are not friends.
[music]
Hi, my name is John Jquish. I'm a doctor
of biomedical engineering, which gives
me a unique perspective beyond a lot of
the people you see on YouTube. And today
I want to talk about how creatine and
caffeine
two things that have benefits for your
physical performance but not if you take
them at the same time because they are
not friends. Caffeine has a tendency to
dehydrate you take
more of the water out of tissues out of
cells because of its vasoc constriction
properties. So another vasoc constrictor
is nicotine. Similar thing but at a very
different time interval and and a very
different behavior very different
somewhat different. Now creatine
retains
more water in musculature and in brain
material. So to get those benefits you
want to keep those tissues hydrated. So,
what happens when you take both creatine
and caffeine at the same time? There
ends up being no benefit and then it
it's really rough on your digestion. You
get some stomach pain problems and then
you don't get the benefits of creatine.
Both the brain benefits and the muscular
benefits are somewhat foregone or
completely foregone depending on which
study you look at. So, what you want to
do and what I do is uh you know I I have
if you've been following me a long time,
you know I'm a big fan of small amounts
of caffeine. So, if you have if you're
one of those 800 mgram guys, like you
have two large Starbucks coffees a day,
I would suggest really massively cutting
that back. like you know one one 4 oz
cup like the small cups like when we
were kids they had those little Dixie
cups that's 50 mg
have two of those have have 100 even in
the preworkout the Jake Wish Biomedical
manufacturers we only we put a very
small amount of caffeine and I don't
even do a full dose of that I I like to
half dose it because I want a very very
small amount of caffeine because when
your body gets used to the smaller
amount the smaller amount does the same
as the larger amount. So sensitivity and
amounts are very closely related with
caffeine. So I start my day, have my
caffeine, get the benefit, and really
once I get the ball rolling, and then I
do my workout. Well, after I do a set of
X3 anything
like my day is started, I am firing on
all cylinders and I'm not going to get
sleepy
under any circumstances. So, I'm okay.
And so, then maybe a couple hours after
that, I'll have my Forigen combined with
my creatine. If the schedule doesn't
work out like that, I might do it the
other way around and start my day with
my creatine and forgen mix. I mix those
together and then I'll wait a couple
hours and then have caffeine later.
[music] So, just make sure that they
don't bump into each other and [music]
you're good. Hope it helps. Let me know
if uh if you have any questions in the
comments. Thanks. If this video helped
you, I want you to subscribe and follow.
I'm going to put out videos on a regular
basis. I think they're going to help a
whole lot of people, especially if
you're one of those people that doesn't
just instantly grow from lifting regular
weights. [music] We've got the answer
for you.